hi guys so today I decided to share a
few guys the five things that I think
made my application gwc a strong one and
that ultimately got me into CC
please remember I'm not on the selection
committee so I don't know if those are
the actual five innings but I went for
everything I submitted to you'd ever see
and felt like okay Joe sort of five
things that really stood out um so yeah
without further ado let's get into it
and the first thing is I think the most
obvious thing and those were my grades
so I actually went back and got my
transcripts and I applied to use iam
when I was already in tenth grade but I
hadn't completed tenth grade so I apply
it with my ninth grade grades and I
actually calculated my average to give
you guys an idea of where I was it's
time so in Germany we are graded on a
scale from one to six or six being
divorced and one being the best and I
had an average of one point zero seven
that means I had one two and only over
two ones and that's who was peed because
there really suck at sports but I don't
think that this is a requirement for
getting into UDC I think if you have
anything like one point something you're
doing pretty good so don't worry that
makes you already a strong candidate but
even if you're at a two point something
you know I mean inferring up to a 2.5
you know it's still good if you're less
good than a 2.5 I think you still have a
chance getting in obviously but I think
you will need to show a stronger
commitment in other areas because your
academic commitment isn't shown to be as
strong so I think you can definitely
like make up for it but you need to make
up for it in your application we're
something all right but I don't think
grades are everything to get into you
know see I think they're a really good
start and I would always consider it
great to be like a door opener you know
if you have those amazing grades the
people who read your application you're
gonna be like wow she's working really
hard in school but if she doing number
things right like that gives you like a
first booster kind of and they have a
positive impression but then you want to
see more because your CC is not just a
school and they really emphasize that on
the website and you
need to show that you want more than
just a school in your application and I
think one of the things that also make
me a strong candidate ever since um to
my second point is my subject selection
now in some school systems you cannot
select subjects at all so this doesn't
apply to you if your school doesn't
offer it is this is not for you okay but
if it does they want to see that you're
willing to challenge yourself that you
want to do things that are a little bit
different and you're willing to
experiment and the way I this is because
my school offered bilingual classes so I
was in a class where we had different
subjects being taught in English for a
year and then a change in the number
subject was taught in English so I had
biology history and geography taught in
English but not all at the same time it
always changed each year by joining
these classes I was able to show that I
was interested in being taught in
English which is good because all United
World colleges offer being taught in
English they want to see that you're
capable of that and I already showed
them that that was great the first thing
that made me um strong up the congedo
sea and those were my extracurriculars
now I was crazy but extracurricular the
ninth and tenth grade I don't know what
was going on with me um and honestly
like I look back here at my application
then I spend to you know see Germany and
I'm like how the hell did I have the
time to do all of this I don't remember
being so busy yeah I'm just gonna give
me like a little sense of how much I was
doing and yeah judge for yourself but
yes okay so I was taking dance classes
um in standard and I was a scout I was
also part of the student council and I
was a head girl I also worked for a
student newspaper I was a mediator and I
was also a mentor for younger students
and I have been trained to be a junior
student mentor with a focus on
integration sit also a debater I also
played volleyball worked with younger
students and I supervise them doing
their homework and I also volunteered as
a cue chair for a child that could not
had access to tutoring everyone also
worked as a tutor that I have my blog
and took a lot of photos and I
volunteered over the summer working with
children and a daycare so yeah you know
I was like kind of like doing a lot of
stuff and I did those things for a long
time like you know if you if you do
something for a year and you say oh yeah
and parts of student newspaper
since two months ago that's like okay
you just let this because you really
wanted this to be in your application
right um
but most of these things I started them
in seventh grade and I just kept doing
them and I added more and more but if
you're only having like one
extracurricular and you're like oh my
god I'm still a good fit because this
German girl hit like over ten yes you
are
if you're so passionate about one thing
and you're spending all your time on
this by all means please PLEASE apply to
itto me see more thing that got me into
WC is the letters of recommendation I
submitted and here I'd like to say
something please please be smart about
who you ask to write your letter of
recommendation okay um don't just ask
the teacher you like ask the teacher
that likes you back because you want a
teacher to write something good about
you and I also don't ask the teacher who
you get along with really well but in
who subject you don't participate at all
okay good
looks kind of bad so what I did is I
asked my kind of future you could say so
she wasn't responsible for all the kids
in my class and she taught me two
subjects one ofone was a bilingual class
so that was great and um then I asked my
math teacher because my math teacher had
a lot of experience in writing
recommendations she had been abroad
herself so she was able to make a really
good assessment of whether I would be a
fit for going away from home and where
was she things I am responsible enough
and dependent enough and whoever I
really have the you know the ability to
do it and I mean that was important and
you know before I left to write my
letter of recommendation
I actually informed him a little bit
about he'd oversee I gave
like a little brief here this one's
about and this is what they want from
their students and I think this is
important because if you just go to your
teachers and you're like I need a letter
for commendation and you keep it really
general they're gonna write you a really
general letter of recommendation so
don't do that because you want the
letter for commendation to tell you WC
you're a great fit for those reasons and
those reasons match the criteria they
look at now what criteria do they look
at right like that's what we all ask
ourselves um well I went back to it away
in a different research and let me just
pull it up so I went to the German you
don't see website and looked at what
they say the things are that they assess
okay so there are free things did they
look at and that is first of all the
degree to which you kind of like Matt
should oversee like are you really a
good fit for the college for any college
the next thing your achievements and I
think in terms of achievements they
probably count your extracurriculars
there because they definitely look at
them but also your grades and the last
thing they look at is your personality
and your teachers will be the ones that
will probably write about your
personality as well so you want to make
sure to write about a personality that
matches the college and you know has
great achievements on the record so yeah
if you give your teacher it's a little
bit of background on here this is what
they're looking for they can help tailor
your recommendation towards it number
five the last thing that got me into UW
SIA is my written application so why do
I think my written application got me
into you'd ever seen
on something I've been struggling with
like for so long so I cannot guarantee
you that I made a good assessment of my
written application back one thing that
really made it great is that there were
no spelling mistakes and no grammar
mistakes I've been reading this thing
for like a hundred times before sending
it and I worked on my written
application for over two months which is
a lot for like five essays and they were
really short okay
but I don't regret it I think this was
time well in Weston because if you don't
spend this much time in your application
there are gonna do mistakes and those
are gonna be silly mistakes and the
people who look at your application know
those are silly mistakes and then they
think it didn't matter to you enough to
even put in the time and that is not the
impression you want the people reading
your application to have okay whatever
it in the fact that I didn't have
spelling mistake speed man written
application great well I think the fact
that I was really honest like there was
no lie or anything in my application and
you can tell when people are writing
about things they've actually
experienced and that they actually feel
so an example is I wrote about the
illness of a very close family member
how did illness affect me and how it
changed the path of my life to some
degree and if you can open up about
something like that and show what the
people reading application that there's
more to you than just extracurriculars
and grades which are mature to paper
that is amazing and those things are
your things that your teachers also
don't know about you so that kind of
like completes the puzzle of who you are
because they have the version of you in
school with your extracurriculars and
your recommendations but there's this
whole private you which is still missing
and some of the private parts may be
filled out by extracurriculars but
there's still a lot like about you your
family your friends which isn't there so
writing about these things is great
because it gives them a complete picture
it should have people read over it but
importantly you don't let them correct
too much okay take your criticism apply
what you want to apply from it but if
you feel like you're kind of losing your
voice in that essay don't apply it thank
you guys so much for watching if you
guys have any questions about my AWC
experience or why I applied and my
application and the experience of
applying um feel free to message me on
my blog there's a contact section which
is linked down below and you can message
me terror and
I'm getting it back to you if you leave
your email there and yeah thank you guys
bye